
## 2022-12-12 Summary so far

Well the Maximilian's course is not the most up to date, despite claiming "2023 update". Few significant changes:

- there's no more RaisedButton available, so if you want to do with current version, you have to rewrite relevant pieces
- the start up code generated by Flutter, the class' boiler plates are different; actually better
- the newer versions of Flutter require you to adhere to null safety, and write strongly typed code. The linter is very picky, much more than what's in the course videos

Nevertheless, I've decided not to downgrade the Flutter version to make it compatible with the course content, but amend the code on the go.

### Couldn't run on iPhone

It works nice with Xcode and the simulators, but it seems that it's now blocked to run your app directly on wired iPhone from VSC directly. Following some clues, I run it on iPhone by opening project file from ios folder and running it from Xcode. I think hot-reload did not work in this scenario. It works okay when running on iPhone simulator (which VSC can start for you on itself)

### It's all widgets

There are many widgets. The problem is not with buttons now, but rather all those Column, Container - organization widgets and their parameters.

One thing that's also different in the new version of Flutter, is that concept of styling has changed. The way I see it, is that you don't provide colors directly to, say, a button, but you provide a class instance that represents the style. And the style elements can be inherited. Something CSS-like?

But setting colors of app button, letters and background proved to be difficult. What's with those primary and secondary? And those complex classes (or instances) containing constants or style? CopyFrom....

And how is one supposed to know that here or there you have to use an instance of EdgeInsets? Where's this name coming from?

### `const`

I watched some additional stuff about `const`, but still some elements are confusing. What does `const` mean in from of constructor definition? That the constructor reeturns const? Or that the constructor is a const itself? 
Apparently, the way they put the code two years ago is different to current version.

### Accessibility

The simple Flutter app works nicely with Apple's voice over out of box, which is very welcome.

## 2022-12-16 

It's all widgets again... I kind of like the way you built UI here. You don't directly position widgets on the screen by, say, providing coordinates, but you build the hierarchy and put widgets in organizing widgets that way controlling the layout on the screen. 
That would be so hard without the hot-reload.

I see this similiar to how you bild things with tools like EditorX. You do sections and then containers, grids, repeaters. Put widgets inside, define attachments, padding and behoviour. But EditorX is kind of wobbly. 

## 2022-12-17

Still missing the `const` concept. Why is this not a const?
```
Container(
    width: 100,
    child: const Text('CHART'),
)
```
## 2022-12-22

Styling is still confusing. It's good that types of parameters are actually the names of the classes, for exmple:
`crossAxisAlignment: CrossAxisAlignment.start`
but then you get `decoration` parameter of type `Decoration` that can take values of `BoxDecoration` type.

Some styling you do on a widget but others (depending on widget) you do on its parent. 

I guess you need to used to it. The question how "sustainable" is that. I mean, once you have a break in flutter coding, will you need to lear it all anew when you get back to developing?

## 2022-12-25

This is something really annoying. You go with a widget, and the linter complains to make it a `const`. Ok. But, some time later, you add something to the widget that makes it a constant no more. Now you have to remove `const` from the front of the widged, and add it to all apparently constant actuall arguments. 
And then you decide, to actually go back to original version and the fun happens one more time.

Sometimes I wish it was faster. Discussing over and over details of how widges are formatted makes me feel stuck. It would be better to get more concepts tought now.

Seems like a many of the challenges (eg lifting the state) can be solved in different manners. Well, I assume we're learning the "flutteral" way in Shwartzmuller's course.

I think I start to see how the state management is not at all replacement to MVC. It's just a framework thing, a convention on how to update GUI.

### Private methods passed to other library

This is kind of unclear. A `_privateMethod` is not available outside a library, right? But when passing it via "pointer" it can be used from within other library. 
I guess that underscore conventions makes it easy for compiler to check whether there's a call to private function, but it doesn't care to do any checks when things are passed around "behind the scenes".

### Scrollable column

It's interesting, that actually a column doesn't do scrolling, but you rather wrap it in dedicated scrollable widget. Makes sense.

## 2022-12-26

This state management thing seems to be the pain in the back. At lecture 94 the code seems to be nicely organized, but now, because we need to add some widgets for data entry on the main screen, we need to "lift the state up?".

I think I would organize it some other way. I'd try to build some factory to create the widgets with dependancies injected. Not to mess the logic into main.

## 2022-12-28

This is actually annoying. The course covers old styling approach. For example using `accentColor` in `ThemeData` and `textTheme` in `AppBarTheme`. Transforming to new ways is not trivial at this point of time. This already confusing topic with multiple dot and nested invocations (`ThemeData.light().textTheme.copyWith(titleMedium: const TextStyle(...`) becomes even more so. This is not 2023-proof! Anyways, I skip caring for theming for now.

Apparently I can see that the way this "Expanse Planner" is being built so far is not the best way of structuring the code. It's just hasted to show flutter features as soon as possible. Actually, I think I would prefer to have best practices tought since the very begining. I'm confused now, whather the way the code is written is a good practice (seems like in many cases it's not); and that adds more confusion.

Ok, it's nice addition in Flutter VSC plugin, that, at least in some cases, for deprecated features it provides option to "Quick Fix..." and nicely refactors to current way. And btw, at the end of some lessons Swartzmuller added text file explaining showcasing how some of incopatibilites can be addressed (I think the refactoring fix did better). Lazy, but ok.

Funny observation: when changing styling and working with iOS simulator I often need to "Restart" instead of "Hot Reload" to see consistent change results.

## 2023-01-03

The next tedious lesson about drawing widgets. Come on, let's do something more... challenging? 
I suppose, that when working on a project, I will have to google around a lot. I will not remember the particulars of each widget or theming structure. After only that I'll become skilled.

## 2023-01-04 - 107. Flexible & Expanded: Deep Dive

Started adding lesson name to headings. 

I think I go through this section, "Widgets, Styling..." and next start building something on my own.

## 2022-01-05 - 110. Widgets & Configuring Widgets - Summary / Overview

The annoying thing is, building part of the app in a quick way, and then, some time later, fixing it because it wasn't following good practice. Ok, I get that, but my brain already saw the not-so-good stuff and when going back it sometimes get confusing.
Really annoying. Some attributes or functions were made public, just to later on conclude that they should - of course - have underscore and actually be private from the begining. But I actually spent some time pondering on why they weren't make private...
